Muon fit improvement (#2736)
cta-observatory/ctapipe: docs/changes/2736.feature.rst

The algorithms for muon ring fitting have been improved

- Upgrade the taubin_circle_fit with weights to avoid bias toward rings with larger radii

> - the function may use the defined initial parameters : ring center and radius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the optional initial parameters : ring center and radius.
```

- Add a combined ring fitting method (kundu_chaudhuri_taubin).
- This new combined method is set to be the default method.
- Updated the test with an additional fitting method, each method is tested separately.
- Realistic muon ring simulation for all camera types implemented in the test with toy model.
- Include the parameter fit errors in the tolerance metric.
- Add error fields to the muon container.

> - The modified functions are backward compatible.

Reviewer 2: You now changed the API of `MuonFitter.__call__`. So I'd remove this line, add a line about this change and change the filename of the changelog to `2736.api.rst`

Author: done

> Fix units (absence of) for skewness and excess kurtosis in muon analysis

Reviewer: This is not your changes, please provide your own one-line summary

Author: Just did what you asked
https://github.com/cta-observatory/ctapipe/pull/2736#discussion_r2057849581

In any case have a look now.

Reviewer: I asked not to remove the changelog record that has nothing to do with your changes. You did that, however, in your new changelog record, you have a first line (one-line summary of the changes) from another changelog, this one:
```
Fix units (absence of) for skewness and excess kurtosis in muon analysis
```

You should replace it with the summary of your changes in the MR.

> Motivation:

Reviewer: This document should follow ReST syntax to be displayed correctly

> The muon ring fitter needs to be improved.

Reviewer 2: As I wrote before, this is a changelog entry. It describes what has already happened.

Reviewer 2: This comment was not addressed. Please leave it to the maintainers to resolve conversations.

Please change this sentence to something like: "The algorithms for muon ring fitting have been improved:"

Fix units (absence of) for skewness and excess kurtosis in muon analysis

> The muon ring fitter needs to be improved.

Reviewer: This all will be rendered as one very long line. Please use ReST formatting.

The existing toy tests for muons are overly simplified.
Upgrade the taubin_circle_fit with weights to avoid bias toward rings with larger radii.
Additionally, the function may use the defined initial parameters (xc, yc, R): center (xc, yc) and radius R of the fitted circle). The function is backward compatible.
Add a combined ring fitting method (kundu_chaudhuri_taubin) We use the Chaudhuri-Kundu formula to calculate the initial muon ring parameters and feed them into the modified Taubin fit with weights.
Updated the test with an additional fitting method, each method is tested separately. Enhance the toy model for muon ring simulation by incorporating user-defined asymmetry in both the x and y directions. Updating the muon ring fitter test to include ring asymmetry. It is noticeable that a ring with less asymmetry can still be fitted using the Chaudhuri-Kundu method (not a true fit), while a ring with larger asymmetry can only be accurately fitted using the updated Taubin circle fit and the newly introduced method.
A ring fitter testfunction is backward compatible.

> Removing the support functions. Please ignore them while reviewing the code.

Reviewer 2: I think there is a general misunderstanding what this file is for.

It is not for people reviewing this pull request. It is meant to go into the release notes of the first release that includes this change. You can see it in the documentation for past releases here:

https://ctapipe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html#ctapipe-0-25-0-2025-04-16

So please rephrase so that it fits that goal. It should be a short description for a user of ctapipe upgrading to the new version to understand what is new / has changed.

Author: @maxnoe thank you for the clarification :-) !!!
